Hi, everyone! In this video,
we'll be learning more about joins,
subqueries and common table expressions,
also known as CTEs. So what is a
Join? Join is used to combine rows from different tables, two or more than two,
based on a shared column.
Let us see an example.
Write a query to find the drug_concept_name linked to the drug_concept
id, for example,
If I'm querying the drug exposure table and I want to find the person ID and the drug concept ID.
But I don't know what this concept_ID stands for.
So to do that,
I'll have to join the drug exposure table with the concept table on a common column.
That is the concept_id in in the concept table and the drug_concept_id on the drug_exposure table.
And I'll specify the drug concept ID value for which I need to find it out.
So if I run this query Oops,
sorry, OK,
let me just do it again.
Yep, so you can see that these are the person IDs with the drug concept ID and the drug name.
So that is how you can join multiple columns sorry
You can join multiple tables on a common column and fetch your results.
Next, let's look at subqueries.
Subqueries are made up of two or more,
than two queries.
For example, you'll have an inner query that you can see over here and an outer query.
which is nothing but this.
So we have.
We have the task of finding patients who had a drug exposure after being diagnosed with hypertension.
So, uh, we have the drug exposure table,
but we want only those person IDs who were diagnosed with hypertension.
So in the where clause,
I will specify that only select those person IDs where the condition concept ID is 31967.
Since this condition concept ID is not present in the drug exposure table,
I couldn't specify it in the WHERE clause directly,
and that's why I used subquery.
So if I run this,
I can see that this is the person.
This is the drug concept,
and this was the drug exposure's start date.
Next we have the common table expressions.
This is used when we want to reuse our
subqueries.
For example, it is used when we have complex queries that benefit from modularity, repeated logic
or when you want a query to be more readable and maintainable.
So, the example is to find drugs prescribed to patients diagnosed with both hypertension and diabetes.
So with the WITH clause,
we can see that we can create a common table expression.
Hypertension_patients.
We have specified the condition over here,
so all the person IDs are stored in hypertension patients.
All the person IDs with diabetes are stored in diabetes patients.
Then we use the INTERSECT keyword to find the common person IDs for both of these concept IDs and
then we can use this particular common table expression in the from clause and use that
and by joining on drug exposure and concept tables,
we can get the person ID,
the drug concept ID and the drug concept name.
So if I run this query,
let us see what is the result?
Awesome. So here you can see the person ID the drug concept ID and what is the drug name.
So JOIN is used when you are directly linking tables based on a key or a relationship. Subquery is used when you
need to filter, aggregate or calculate values that are based on the result of another query.
And CTEs is used when you want to do some repeated logic in your queries so I can use this diabetes_patients,
hypertension_diabetes_patients in other queries as well.
Thank you!